Onboarding-page-change (#32080)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/getting-started/onboarding.markdown

description: "Instructions to get Home Assistant configured."
---

> After your Home Assistant server is up and running, there are 5 simple steps to log in and see your devices.

Reviewer: - I don't think we should use the term "server" to be honest.
- Let's avoid the use of "simple", which is subjective and can be received as condescending in case a user is struggling.
- I'm unclear on "and see your devices" and what that means?

Author: what would you prefer instead of server? "See your devices" is a phrase used in the previous version so I assumed it was that approved way of discussing this?

Author: Given your previous reply, I can change this to "After Home Assistant is up and running..."

> **Step 1**: type  <http://homeassistant.local:8123/> into your browser.

Reviewer: We cannot link to that URL, as this is a none-existing link for the internet, causing issues with search engines and SEO.

Additionally, we should not use bare links.

There is a double/extra space in here as well.

Author: I just used <> instead of '' to wrap the URL. If you'd prefer I use '' that is a simple change

Reviewer: Wouldn't you agree on the above reasoning?

Author: agreed

> **Step 1**: type  <http://homeassistant.local:8123/> into your browser.

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of using a bold style emphasis instead of headers.

Headers are important for search engines to extract content and know the importance, including or own search engine.

Author: fixed

![Home Assistant preparation](/images/getting-started/onboarding_preparing_01_.png)

> {% details If that didn’t work %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% details "If that didn’t work" %}
```

> If you are running an older Windows version or have a stricter network configuration, you might need to access Home Assistant at homeassistant:8123 or http://X.X.X.X:8123 (replace X.X.X.X with your device’s IP address).

Reviewer: - `homeassistant:8123` looks odd here
- Same for the X.X.X.X URL that lost formatting and is now auto linked to something non-existing.

Author: Both of those were in previous version. I didn't touch it. Can anyone who check in the previous version comment here?

Reviewer: The formatting got lost, so it is not the same as the previous version.

Author: Ah, ok, I'll check that out, thanks.

> {% enddetails %}

Reviewer: Needs a new line before closing to the Markdown parser can switch context.

```suggestion

{% enddetails %}
```

> **Step 2:** Click on “Create my Smart Home”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 2:** Select **Create my Smart Home**.
```

> This will create an administrator account. It will always be able to change everything in Home Assistant. Enter your name, username, and password and click “Create Account”.

Reviewer: - Avoid the use of "click", it might be a touch screen or other device.
- Seems like formating of **Create account** got lost?

```suggestion
This will create an administrator account. It will always be able to change everything in Home Assistant. Enter your name, username, and password and select **Create Account**.
```

> **Be sure to save this information safely as there is no way to recover it!**

Reviewer: If we need to alert of inform a user, we should use our alert/info boxes.

Author: removed alert

![Set your username and password.](/images/getting-started/username.png)

> {% details If you want to restore from backup instead%}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% details "If you want to restore from backup instead" %}

```

Reviewer: Should this be formulated actionable?
E.g., "Restore from backup instead"?

> If you want to restore from a backup of a previous installation, select Restore from backup.

Reviewer: Formatting got lost?

```suggestion
If you want to restore from a backup of a previous installation, select **Restore from backup**.
```

Continue with the procedure on restoring from backup.
You can ignore the remaining steps listed on this page

> {% enddetails %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{% enddetails %}
```

**Step 3:** Enter the location of your home.

> The location is used to configure the time zone, unit system, and currency. It is also used for automations that would show the weather, open the shades at sunrise, or start the vacuum when you leave the home.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The location is used to configure the time zone, unit system, and currency. It is also used for automations that would show the weather, open the shades at sunrise, or start the vacuum when you leave home.
```

> You can always change this information later in settings.

Reviewer: All steps tells the user how to go to the next step, it seems to be missed for this location step.

Author: fixed

![Define your location.](/images/getting-started/onboarding_location.png)

**Step 4:** Improving Home Assistant.

> Home Assistant can use anonymous information about your system to improve the product. This is disabled by default. However, we would like to encourage you to share some of this data as it helps us to find out which platforms we need to support and where to focus our efforts.

Reviewer: Not sure if "which platforms" is right here. Maybe generalize it?

```suggestion
Home Assistant can use anonymous information about your system to improve the product. This is disabled by default. However, we encourage you to share some of this data as it helps us find out which platforms we need to support and where to focus our efforts.
```

Author: fixed

The data is anonymized and aggregated. To see the charts we generate out of this data, take a look at our [analytics page](https://analytics.home-assistant.io/)

> Once you are done, select Next.

Reviewer: Formatting got lost

```suggestion
Once you are done, select **Next**.
```

Author: accepted

![Share anonymized data](/images/getting-started/onboarding_share_anonymized_info.png)

> **Step 5: Show found devices.**

Reviewer: This "heading", is fully made bold, others are not.

Author: fixed

Home Assistant will then try to find any devices it has discovered on your network. What shows up depends on the devices in your home. Don’t worry if you don’t see anything but your name at the top. You can add more devices later.

> Select Finish.

Reviewer: Formatting got lost.

```suggestion
Select **Finish**.
```

Author: fixed

![Discovery of devices on your network.](/images/getting-started/onboarding_devices.png)

> You’ve now got your basic Home Assistant server up and running.

Reviewer: Same as before: We should avoid the term "server".

Author: Happy to make the change, just don't know what the preferred term should be.

Reviewer: It can be dropped with loss of context imho

Author: To be clear, you're saying "You've now got your basic Home Assistant up and running" is preferred? That sounds a bit odd to me but if this is the accepted, and used, framing, I'll change it. It might make more sense to simplify it futher: "You've now got Home Assistant up and running". Would that also work?

Reviewer: > that sounds a bit odd to me

Why? The mention of "server" doesn't add much, we also don't know how the user will be running Home Assistant. We rarely (mostly never) refer to it as "server" either.

Author: fixed

description: "Instructions to get Home Assistant configured."
---

> After your Home Assistant server is up and running, there are 5 steps to log in and see your devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After Home Assistant has been installed, there are 5 steps to log in and see your devices.
```
Tiny tweak. In the last step, it says "Home Assistant is up and running". At this point, we've only just installed it.

### Step 1

> Type <http://homeassistant.local:8123/> into your browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enter the home assistant address in your browser:
   - Typically, this is `http://homeassistant.local:8123/`.
   - If you are running an older Windows version or have a stricter network configuration, you might need to access Home Assistant at `homeassistant:8123` or `http://X.X.X.X:8123` (replace X.X.X.X with your device’s IP address).
```
Were the step numbers and bullet points removed on purpose?

I realize this may not have been perfectly consistent here to begin with. But in general, throughout the docs, we try and use the following formatting for procedural content:
- If there are multiple steps, we use numbered lists for actions. 
- A bullet point for a single-step action.
- Bullet points for options.
- addresses and paths are code-fenced.

The idea behind this formatting is to improve readability
- when scanning through a procedure, you can recognize some patterns
- quickly see which information describe actions and which is conceptual or reference information
- if there is a specific order to follow

Author: The reason for this change is that the extra information, as far as I can tell, is almost never needed. I wanted to have a simple thing for them to do, not a bullet list of alternative things to try. This type of simplification is key to make this document easier to read. That is why in the section below, as an aside, I *still* have this information, but only as a 'in case you need it' type of presentation. I prefer this more streamlined approach.

![Home Assistant preparation](/images/getting-started/onboarding_preparing_01_.png)

> If you are running an older Windows version or have a stricter network configuration, you might need to access Home Assistant at `homeassistant:8123` or `http://X.X.X.X:8123` (replace X.X.X.X with your device’s IP address).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Step 2

> Select **Create my Smart Home**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either create a new installation or recover an existing installation from a backup.

- To create a new installation, select **Create my Smart Home**.
```
By telling people to immediately select that button, we might also send the people who want to recover from a backup that way. We should first give some indication that there are options.

Author: That's the entire point of this change, almost no one is going to restore from backup so start with the key thing that 99% of the people need, later on, we do call out the ability to do a backup.

> This will create an administrator account. It will always be able to change everything in Home Assistant. Enter your name, username, and password and select **Create Account**.   Be sure to save this information safely as there is no way to recover it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **Result**: This will create an administrator account. It will always be able to change everything in Home Assistant. 
   - Enter your name, username, and password and select **Create Account**. 
   - Be sure to save this information safely, as there is no way to recover it.
```

> ![Set your username and password.](/images/getting-started/username.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Set your username and password.](/images/getting-started/username.png)
```

> If you want to restore from a backup of a previous installation, select **Restore from backup**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you want to restore from a backup of a previous installation, select **Restore from backup**.
```

> Continue with the procedure on restoring from backup. You can ignore the remaining steps listed on this page

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Continue with the procedure on restoring from backup. You can ignore the remaining steps listed on this page
```

### Step 3

> Enter the location of your home. The location is used to configure the time zone, unit system, and currency. It is also used for automations that would show the weather, open the shades at sunrise, or start the vacuum when you leave the home. You can always change this information later in settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enter the location of your home. 
  - The location is used to configure the time zone, unit system, and currency. It is also used for automations that would show the weather, open the shades at sunrise, or start the vacuum when you leave the home. 
  - You can always change this information later in settings.
```

Author: What is the advantage of breaking it up into bullet points?

> ![Define your location.](/images/getting-started/onboarding_location.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ![Define your location.](/images/getting-started/onboarding_location.png)
```

>  After finding your location, select **Next**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. After finding your location, select **Next**.
```

Author: I already have "Step X" instructions, this is creating a secondary, an alternative numbering system so I'm a bit confused as to why we'd have two in the same doc.

### Step 4

> 

Reviewer 2: Was this step deleted on purpose? 
*Select which information you are willing to share.*
We probably still want them to select these options.

Author: I do have clear steps in my document, you appear to be creating a separate set of points.

description: "Instructions to get Home Assistant configured."
---

After Home Assistant has been installed, there are 5 steps to log in and see your devices.

### Step 1

> - Enter the home assistant address in your browser:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enter the Home Assistant address in your browser:
```

    ![Set your username and password.](/images/getting-started/username.png)

- If you want to restore from a backup of a previous installation, select **Restore from backup**.

    - Continue with the procedure on restoring from backup. You can ignore the remaining steps listed on this page

### Step 3

1. Enter the location of your home. 
  - The location is used to configure the time zone, unit system, and currency. It is also used for automations that would show the weather, open the shades at sunrise, or start the vacuum when you leave the home. 
  - You can always change this information later in settings.

   ![Define your location.](/images/getting-started/onboarding_location.png)

2. After finding your location, select **Next**.

### Step 4

Home Assistant can use anonymous information about your system to improve the product. This is disabled by default. However, we encourage you to share some of this data as it helps us find out where to focus our efforts.  

The data is anonymized and aggregated. To see the charts we generate out of this data, take a look at our [analytics page](https://analytics.home-assistant.io/)

> Once you are done, select **Next**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once you are done, select **Next**.
```

![Share anonymized data](/images/getting-started/onboarding_share_anonymized_info.png)

### Step 5

Home Assistant will try to find any devices it has discovered on your network. What shows up depends on the devices in your home. Don’t worry if you don’t see anything but your name at the top. You can add more devices later.

> Select **Finish**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Select **Finish**.
```
